# CustomerData_ANN
An artificial neural network to predict whether a customer will leave a bank, using Keras.

I've implemented an artificial neural network in Python, using Keras as a convenient wrapper for Tensorflow. Churn_Modelling.csv contains a set of (fictitious) bank records along with whether the customer has recently left the bank, which are imported into CustomerData_ANN.py using pandas and then label/one hot encoded (to ensure Spain isn't treated as the average of France and Germany!) and scaled with scikit-learn - the scaler is exported for later re-use, which for the current model I've saved as customerdata_scaler.bin. The network architecture is laid out in CustomerData_ANN.py and compiled with the 'adam' implementation of gradient descent, with Relu activation in the hidden layers for non-linearity and sigmoid in the output layer for probability output, and with dropout training to reduce codependency in neurons (shown to reliably break plateaus in training/testing errors), before being trained on the data. The network architecture and trained model are exported - I've named them CustomerData_Arch.bin and and CustomerData_Trained.h5 respectively. The exported files can be used in CustomerData_NewPrediction.py, which allows the model to make predictions based on new or unseen data. After testing, the program prints a confusion matrix to evaluate performance, giving the results in the form [[Correctly True, Type 1 Error], [Type 2 Error, Correctly False]] from which we can calculate testing error.

The model that I've trained and uploaded (CustomerData_Trained.h5) has a final training error of 83.1% and a testing error of 83.8%, unexpectedly favouring the side of generalisability. I believe with tweaking the architecture of the network that this could be further improved.
